# CS340
Client/Server Development


  When creating programs, there are many best practices to keep in mind. Some will determine the security of an application while others enhance the functionality and others still will lessen the required maintenance. To meet these demands certain frameworks are implemented and one of the more effective solutions was taught in this course. The CRUD or Create, Read, Update, or Delete framework facilitates the development of individual modules to handle certain aspects of a program's functions. Therefore, the program not only becomes more secure as these modules will be self-contained, but it also enhances the ability for developers to test the code for errors. While testing the application, you can call on whatever module is giving issues without having to modify any of the others. These modules are also incredibly adaptable and can be carried over into other projects with only minor modifications. 
  Once a developer has identified the proper framework, they must then determine how to adapt the client’s needs into the structure. A program can be great for testers and developers, but be awful for the end user and this issue must be considered carefully as a computer scientist. Therefore, the goal should always be to create a program that will benefit the client and enhance their day-to-day operations while still keeping the best coding practices in mind. In the projects throughout this course, we applied our knowledge about the structures of databases to create an application for Grazioso Salvare. We had been given their requirements and from the start, my approach was to consider how the program would be used by the clients. Before writing any code, I had to consider the technical expertise of the users, the business structure of the organization, and the type of data required in the program. With these aspects defined, it then became possible to apply different pieces of these data structures to build a truly unique and functional application for the client.
